Clustering Coefficient

Triadic Closure: 
	The tendency for people who are connections in a social network to become connected. 
	How can we measure the prevalance of triadic closure?
	Local clustering coefficient: Fraction of pairs of node's friends that are friends with each other. 

Global Clustering Coefficient: 
	 1) nx.average_clustering(G), average local clustering coefficient over all nodes in the graph
	 2) Measuring percentage of "open triads" or "triangles" in a network
	 Transitivity: closed * 3 / open

Transitivity vs Average Clustering Coefficient
	Both measure the tendency for edges to form triangles
	Transitivity weights nodes with large degree higher

Distance Measures: 
	How far is a node is from each other? 
	WHich node is closest vs farthest from each other?

Path: A sequnece of nodes connected by two nodes
Distane between two nodes: shortest path length

Finding the distance from node A to every other node
Easy to do manually in small networks but tedious in large networks
Bredth first search: a systemativ and efficient procedure for computing ditances from a node to all other nodes in a large network by "discovering" nodes in layers
	T = nx.bfs_tree(G, "A")
	T.edges() (all shortest paths)
	nx.shortest_path_length(G, "A") (all shortest distances)

Diamater: max distance between any pair of nodes
Eccentricity: of node n is the largest distance between n and all other nodes
nx.eccentricity(G)

Radius: of a graph is the minimum eccentricity
nx.radius(G)

Periphery: of a graph is the set of nodes that have eccentricity equal to the diameter

Center of a graph: eccentricity is equal to radius

Connected Components: 

An undirected graph is connected if for every pair of nodes, there is ap th between them

Connected component: A subset of nodes that satisfies the following: 
	- every node is the subject has a pth to every other node
	- no other node has a pth to any node in the subset

Connectivity in directed graphs: 
	Strongly connected: G is strongly connected if for every pair of nodes u and v, there is a directed path from u to v and a directed path from v to u. 

	Weakly connected: if replacing all directed edges with undirected edges produces a connected undirected graph. 

Strongly connected component: 
	- every node in the subset has a directed path to every other node
	- no  other node has a directed path to nd from every node in the subset

Network Robustness
	Definition: the ability of a network to maintain its general structural properties when it faces failures or attacks
	
	Type of attacks: removal of nodes or edges

	Structural properties: connectivity

Robust networks have large minimum node and edge cuts

Quiz solutions:
1) 0.7	
2) Network (A) has higher average local clustering coefficient but lower transitivity than (B).

3) The radius of this network is half of its diameter.

The deletion of node G will make the network disconnected.

If we perform Breadth-First Search (BFS) from node A, the BFS tree we obtain will have a depth of 4.

(Incorrect)

4)
all four (Incorrect)

5)Only network (B) is a strongly connected graph.

We only need to add one directed edge in order to change network (C) to a strongly connected graph.


6)The closure of an airport and the cancellation of a flight route are examples of two different kinds of network attacks in the real world.

Network robustness measures a network’s ability to maintain its connectivity.

Adding edges to a network can never make the network less robust.



7) 1
8) 2
9) 8
10) 
Removing node F and H
Removing edges (H,K) and (E,F)


